*Ongoing Project*  
the model is completed but the explanations and example implementations on real unprocessed netflix data are still in progress

This is a fully vectorized from scratch implimentation of a Gaussian Mixture Model for matrix completion. This project is inspired by a project I completed for MIT's edx course 'Machine Learning With Python: From Linear Models to Deep Learning'  In this repository we show how to use the model for completing matrices of netflix users and movies they have reviewed. I.E. how to use the model for building a movie recommendation system.  

An example usage on preprocessed real netflix data (provided by MIT) as well as an explanation of some of the math involved is shown in the associated jupyter notebook. Each row in the file represents a netflix user and the ratings from 1-5 they gave to each movie (represented by the columns). Entries of 0 represent movies they have not reviewed.  

*Important*  
Github does not properly render mathematical formulas, so please view the .ipynb file in Jupyter's notebook viewer:  
https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/synnfusion/gaussian_mixture/blob/master/example_usage.ipynb

No external libraries besides numpy (and matplotlib for plotting) are used.  

The gaussian mixture constructor takes 3 arguments:  
X - nxd np.ndarray with values 0-5 where n is the number of users and d is the dimension of the data (number of movies)  
    the model expects 0 to represent non-existent entries or movies that have not been reviewed by the corresponding user  
K - number of Gaussian clusters used by the model  
seed - a seed for random initialization of parameters of the model  

To train the model call the run method. Run takes one optional argument:  
min_variance - float representing the smallest possible variance the model can obtain. This is a crude method to to prevent the vanishing variance problem.  

To plot the log likelihood use the plot_history method.  

Once the model has been run, use the fill_matrix method which takes the matrix (np.ndarray) to be filled as an argument. The method expects the array to be of the same shape as the one on which it was trained.  

Use the static method evaluate_rmse to evaluate the root mean square error of the model. This takes two arguments:  
-filled matrix generated by the model  
-test matrix to be compared with the filled matrix  
